
# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

- [App Design](#app-design)

  - [Architecture](#architecture)

  - [Implementation](#implementation)

  - [Figma](#figma)

  - [UI](#ui)

- [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

  - [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

  - [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

  - [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

- [Scrum](#scrum)

  - [Documents](#documents)

  - [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

To improve readibility, you could benefit from making the Architecture Diagram in a software such as https://excalidraw.com. It will also be easier to maintain as you add features to your app. The 'TBD...' can be removed as the Architecture Diagram is only supposed to represent your current app.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

For the next Milestone, you should have pop-up windows asking the user whether he/she agrees to give access to the app to his/her photo gallery. You should also ask for autorisation before using the microphone.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

Your Figma looks very good. There are still some links between different screens that are not yet implemented (for example the arrow to go back from a practice session to the overview screen) but those are minor problems. You are missing the practice screens where we can record ourselves and there is some feedback.

For this part, you received 13 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

On a phone with small screen size, you cannot log in to the first app, the Google Sign In button is not showing. Make sure your layout is responsive and adapt to different screen sizes (express sizes in terms of percentage of the screen size) and orientations ! Also you have some screens that do not adapt to the phone settings (dark/light mode).

For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

Unfortunately the code coverage is too low (39.3%), it should be one of your main focus for the next sprint to reach a 80% line coverage. We acknowledge that you implemented a lot of features during this first milestone, hence during next sprints you will have to put the accent on making up on the tests.
For next Milestone, you should ensure that you have:
- At least 1 meaningful UI test per screen 
- At least 1 meaningful unit test per view-model
- At least 1 meaningful unit test per repository

Well done on the end to end test ! You navigate through the whole app and interacts with some text fields. For the next milestone you should also test the part with the training.

For this part, you received 18 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

Please note that for the next Milestone you will have to use a .yaml file to trigger the build of the APK. The APK works great on an android phone. We just couldn't use the voice record feature: we have the error Symbl.ai credentials are missing.

For this part, you received 7 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.

Minor bugs:
- A lot of buttons don't work but nothing is done to notify the user that they are simply not implemented yet. For buttons that bring you to another view you could have implemented the navigation to a blank view saying 'not yet implemented' with the possibility to go back to the previous view. Otherwise you could have waited to have the corresponding view implemented before adding these buttons.
- When clicking on the 'Fun' practice mode we do not have the possibility to go back to the overview screen. Also the text is written in the top left corner and is almost unreadable.
Remarks: we can't log out, maybe it's because it's not implemented yet.

Crashes:
- When pressing the 'Get Started' button if no information have been provided the app crashes. You should add checks to ensure that the user is not able to press this button if all required fields are not filed.

For this part, you have been penalized -2 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

The last Stand-Up sheet is not complete, only two team members filled it. Please be careful as you should document at least one stand-up meeting a week.

For this part, you received 7 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your
Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

Your Product Backlog already has plenty of user stories, really helpful to assess the users' needs.
Don't forget to specifically assign an epic to each user stories, we will look that during the next milestones.
Here's a structure you can adopt for the description of your tasks: 1) User story related, 2) In-depth description of the task, 3) QA Plan, 4) Remarks.
Some tasks do not have an estimation of the time they should take. 

There are still some tasks related to Sprint 2 in the Sprint Backlog: they should have been reconducted to Sprint 3 by adding the tag. However you did a really good job planning for Sprint 3 and assigning the new tasks. Some tasks in 'Done in Sprint 1' are related to not related to Sprint 1. Same for 'Done in Sprint 2', please try to make up for it. Your Scrum Board is your main organisational tool, and should be kept updated in a pristine way. Please for the next sprints: 1) Fill in all tags entries of each task, especially the time estimation and the actual time which are crucial for planning (we suggest that you replace the number entry for times by a list of predefined times such as 30min, 1h, 2h, 4h, 6h and 8h, so that it appears directly on the Scrum Board without hovering on it with the mouse). 2) When you start working on a task, instantiate an issue for it, and closed the issue once done. 3) Link your PRs to the issues they close: this way, you can easily access the code related to one specific task from the Scrum Board.

For this part, you received 17 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 4.65. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/private/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
