# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


All the features in your app add substantial value and meet the M2 requirements. You have some complex implementations and although the app is not fully complete the current features show how it could serve users effectively. To further improve you could try to implement innovative and original features that are impactfull both in their design and in their functionality.

All the features that were planned for the second milestone have been implemented and are complete, while allowing a good user experience. However, the edit profile feature is still a bit buggy and should be corrected for the last milestone.

As a team, you consistently implemented features that truly benefit your application. To improve even further, you could prioritize features even more on the value they add to the application.


For this part, you received 6.3 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


For next milestone, try to create a new page on the wiki of your GitHub repository. You updated the 'MS1' page but it would have been clearer if you simply created a new one for the MS2. Also it would have allowed you to keep track of the evolutions over time.

Concerning the Figma, it is almost fully representative of the app, but it would benefit from having a more detailed 'Practice Mode 1' section. It is missing all the part where the APK enable the user to have some feedback on his performance. To improve, also try having some future features already in the Figma. Having a Figma always ahead of the app will allow your team to always know what you should be implementing next, and how it should look. Else than that the Figma looks good. Well done !

The Architecture Diagram has not evolved, hence the recommendations made for the Milestone 1 have not been implemented. You should remove the 'TBD' annotations and add the APK you want to implement next in your application. Making it not handwritten would also be more professionnal.


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.


Your codebase is well-documented, follows conventions and is modular. You have incorporated the feedback we made for the first milestone and there is a notable improvement. As for M3 you will prepare your app for a public release, your code should be pristine. If you want, think about cognitive complexity (not having too much nested conditions for example), and how you could refactor your code accordingly, but this is just a suggestion.

The code coverage has been increased drastically, well done on reaching 88.6% of line coverage even though you started low for this milestone, you can be proud of yourselves ! Even the part with the APK is tested thoroughly. All screens and features have meaningful tests. Unfortunately, there is only one end-to-end test even though it was specified in the milestone 2 requirements that two end-to-end tests were required. For next milestone, try adding a new end-to-end test potentialy for the practice mode as it is the main functionnality of the application.

The APK could be installed. There are still some small UI problems: some texts in text boxes are slightly cut depending on the screen used, also the bottom control bar of the phone goes over the navigation bar of your application. You could add some messages when the user clicks on buttons that are not yet implemented (a toast for example), this way it is more user friendly and does not look like it is a bug. When clicking on the button to edit the profile the application crashed (this is a major usability issue), you should try to investigate this bug to resolve it. Also when rotating the phone the user is sent to the login screen and lose all the information he might have been entering to prepare an interview.


For this part, you received 12.8 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


The Sprint Backlog for sprint 6 is well-organized and reflect thorough planning. Each task as an assignee, estimate time, priority. Some of the tasks even have a description linking related issues (aim to do it for all of them), well done ! We can see a clear improvement since last milestone, keep up the good work !

The Product Backlog contains various user stories. The user stories are correctly prioritized and completed ones have been moved to 'Done in Sprint x' columns. To improve even further for next milestone, we would advise you to focus strongly on the product by prioritizing the application impact instead of specific code details. The main goal is to add as much value to the application as possible, the tasks in the scrum board should simply be the implementation details related to the features you choose to integrate.

Overall the Scrum Board is meticulously updated and we can see great improvements since the last milestone, congratulations ! To reach excellence, all your tasks should have a description: associated user story, task descrption, QA plan, remarks.


For this part, you received 3.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


The stand-up meeting sheets are completed on time and correctly filled. The team retrospective sheets are also completed on time and include relevant details to correctly assess what happened during the sprint. When a problem is mentioned one week, we can see improvements on it the following sprints, well done !

The scrum meetings contribute to sprint planning and improvement each week. The feedback provided by the coaches is integrated by the team.

Concerning the team autonomy during meetings, sometimes the team still needs to follow more closely the Scrum process. The 3 phases of the meeting (sprint review, team retrospective and sprint planning) are not always clearly separated. For the following sprints, you should try to follow the template described in the `Ceremonies.md` file on the public repository of the SwEnt organisation. 


For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


Even though there were midterms during the second milestone, the team implemented some new features and continuously added value to the application, while at the same time focusing more on the tests. Each sprint brings substantial improvements and the application is on a good way. Keep up the good work !


For this part, you received 1.8 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 4.89. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
